A straightforward algorithm for generating the contracted many-body coupled cluster diagrams is explained. There are three steps in the entire algorithm required to create the diagrams. The first step is representing the excitation and de-excitation primary diagrams with the odd-even number system. Now, the contraction of the diagrams is to pair the numbers with appropriate logic. This will be the second step. The logic for the contraction is presented as three rules here.
An essential part of all advanced many-body diagram-based programming is drawing, calculating and inserting the Hugenholtz and Goldstone diagrams. in the code. The accuracy of the results may depend on many factors. Among them, three essential aspects are a) the quality of the reference states, b) the accuracy of the Hugenholtz and Goldstone diagrams and c) the order of the corrections. Our group developed and published an iterative technique for generating accurate Dirac-Fock orbitals in a previous work [9].
The accuracy of the Hugenholtz and Goldstone diagrams depends on many other factors, such as the correctness of diagram drawing, accurate calculations of the diagrams and coding. Chances of arising inaccuracy increase mainly when the diagrams are drawn and calculated manually, and then the results are inserted in the code separately. It is well known that higher-order excitation, such as triple and quadruple in the Coupled Cluster (CC) method, improves the accuracy [11] compared with the full configuration interaction (FCI) method. The increasing complexity and the number of diagrams with increasing order of calculation is one of the significant challenges for including the higher order terms. 
Generating Hugenholtz and Goldstone diagrams [1] automatically with the computer for many electron systems is a big challenge, especially for higher-order calculations. There have been several attempts [1–6] to produce many body diagrams computationally. These attempts aim to accurately generate higher-order excitation diagrams because they are much more complicated and extensive in numbers. In the case of many-body perturbation theory (MBPT), most calculations are restricted to lower order due to complexity arising from the multiplicity of angular-momentum diagrams together with similar order of possible mistakes [2]. Each diagram requires a separate piece of computation over the number of orbitals. Therefore, a small mistake in the diagram will be amplified with the evolution of the calculation. The number of diagrams in CC is less than all order MBPT, but the complexity of the diagram is higher. It is, therefore, desirable to generate the diagram with errorless automation based on the rules of angular momentum theory. Various types of operators are required in the CC formalism. The final diagrams are fully contracted for ground state energy calculations dealing with Hamiltonian operators and cluster operators. On the other hand, property diagrams deal with cluster and property operators and must have two open lines to signify a resultant electron transition within an initial and final state. The diagrams and their contraction rules would differ for the systems with different valencies. Therefore, researchers would need different codes for different valencies of atomic systems, which could be restricted to one code if the program can generate diagrams computationally by itself for different calculations. 
The coupled cluster (CC) theory has now become one of the most accurate theoretical tools for the calculation of various quantum mechanical properties of different-sized atoms, ions [7–9], and molecules [10]. Our present work solely discusses the diagram relevant to the CC theory, but the suggested methodology of automatic diagram generation can be used for all diagram-based methodologies like MBPT. First, we discuss the Goldstone representation of the above operators and their integer representations. Then, we discuss the technique to generate all possible contracted diagrams, such as energy, property, etc., using a few simple rules. The last part of the methodology gives a brief discussion of the calculations and the program's flowchart.
